todo.md, before:

TODO before playtest:
- 
**magic rework**
- see notes
- define magical misshap tables

**finsh other classes**:
- mage todo (rework overcharge)
- warlock (should be mostly fine, define possession events)
- rogue (implement ideas)
- fighter (implement ideas)

add character creation process with origins

**Equipment**
- add rules for shields
- other items
- books, +1 to lore and a bigger bonus to one specific check if 1h spent to research

create character sheet
create cheet sheet
create npc generator
___________________________________________________________
Evaluation for after Playtest:

- Weapon properties necesarry?
- Should spells be reworked to just cost Arcana?
- check if game needs to be simplified
- Add Wands and Staffs that enable spell basic attacks
- Robes?

___________________________________________________________
Cleanup:

- fix some keywords
- proper phrasing of some stuff in the combat

___________________________________________________________
Future Ideas:

**Status Effects:**
- Taunted Condition?

Commit message:

start with spell rework and rework most of the rules

todo.md, after:

TODO before playtest:

**magic rework**
- when reworking spells make lots of them cost 3 AP (at least all the AOE ones)
  - put absolute spell difficulty in parentheses where currently the spell level was
  - rework athigherPower for all
  - consolidate spells into 1 document
- define magical misshap tables
- fix casting perks, maybe for base school perks let them add to spell cast tests (base thing give you +1, specialization lets you reroll one d6)
- fix spell search view to instead of using spell level, you can filter for ranges of 

**finsh other classes**:
- list what spells and martial maneuvers they are able to learn
- mage todo (rework overcharge)
  - counter should be based on arcana cost or spell-like number in parantheses
- warlock (should be mostly fine, define possession events)
- rogue (implement ideas)
- fighter (implement ideas)

add character creation process with origins

**Equipment**
- add rules for shields
- other items
- books, +1 to lore and a bigger bonus to one specific check if 1h spent to research

create character sheet
create cheet sheet
___________________________________________________________
Evaluation for after Playtest:

- Weapon properties necesarry?
- Should spells be reworked to just cost Arcana?
- check if game needs to be simplified
- Add Wands and Staffs that enable spell basic attacks
- Robes?

___________________________________________________________
Cleanup:

- add missing keyword descritpions
- check no console errors
- proper phrasing of some stuff in the combat
- fix scrolling 

___________________________________________________________
Future Ideas / Nice to have:

**Status Effects:**
- Confused Condition?
create npc generator
