todo_rules.md, before:

____________________________________________________________
### Things to evaluate after Playtest:

**Big Things**
- consider moving attack back to the DM.
- add fate points / some mechanics to reroll things
- hybrid abilities necesarry?
- does spell casting system work
- The System should be focused around the Riftlands
  - Maybe also about accumilating power which can only be found in the riftlands and most "adventurers" get lost there
  - Find good name for adventurer.
  - Think of a way that makes the Riftlands work
  - It should be special and if you want to get to a specific Location it requires something special.

**Minor Things**
- improve layout of character creation 
- maybe make seperate pages for the individual headers
- adjust equipment item tier
- have another look at the implementation of the martial training perks
- Add Wands and Staffs that enable spell basic attacks
- Robes?

____________________________________________________________
### Planned changes after Playtest:

**Formatting**

**Bigger Mechanical Changes**
- Rescale damage, especially for NPCs to make it less lethal at 1st level, maybe NPCs only deal d6 damage.
- Implement similar system for Spell Damage
- Properly rework Hybrid Abilities, they deserve to stay.
- Shields?
- remove unncessesarry core abilities

**Smaller Mechanical Changes**
- properly differentiate [FREE] vs 0 [AP]
- Permanent Injuries should only trigger when reduced to 0 [HP] or at Deaths Door.
- Spell Keywords need to be reworked
- Rewrite perks that have poor ability rendering/formatting

**Ability Simplifications**
- Treat Mechanical Text and Flavour Text seperatly. (abilities should have the textelements for better formatting)
- When possible simplify the mechanical text a lot.
- Weapon Attack Ability Should not be referenced in other abilities but instead the equipment should have references for these.

**Character Changes**
- reduce initial attribute points (maybe 10?)
- Remove Class Features and maybe instead have Class Perks, which can be taken instead of Perks, this includes regular class features as well as class paths.
- Class will only have Class Core Feature which improves at level 4/8/12
- For this the Class Core Feature needs to be special and unique (see notes below)
- Should the Class Names Change more to match the Fantasy World?
- Improve the Character Origins to be more in theme with the world, especially they should have motivation for going into the Riftlands.
- warlock: rename mystic something else
- reduce number of attribute points to 10 maybe

**Specific Changes**
- Rename Hardness to Stability
- change battle recovery to be less useful than resting.
- adjust travel text since speed is constant.
___________________________________________________________
### Future Ideas / Nice to have:

create cheet sheet

maybe add shocked Status effect: can't use reactions

convert custom textelements thingy to rich text format https://github.com/contentful/rich-text

add activities that can be done during long rests:
- crafting
- research
- community service
- spend time with loved ones
- Work (Tool, Medicine or smth else)
- go undercover
- improve relations with faction
- religous service
- carousing
- entertainment
- medical servies that speed up healing.s

Massive Injuries should be split into mental and physical, additionally there should be maybe 3 damage type specific tiers.
rule for helping othrs, roll same check, for every 5 above 10 gain +1.
Table for when NPCs drop to 0 [HP] to determine what happens to them.
New keyword: [SAVE LOWERS], status effect gains 1 tier lower.

There should be a move resist stat that deterimes how much less you are moved.
- Tiny: 3x
- Small 2x
- medium 1x
- Large 1/2
- Huge 1/3
- Gargantuan 1/4
- Titanic 1/5s

add faction relations thing (is it relevant for this game?): 
- should be adventure specific
- higher should give you like access to items and other benefits

**Feat/Accomplishments**
Differnt way of gaining new abilities or features, the players can pick one and have to track progress until they got it, make it integratable into the riftlands and they should be achievable mostly by going to the riftlands.


**Perks**
- Martial Perks for each weapon

**Character Creation Builder**
- need a character wizard

**Missing/partially done things**
- Finish out Adventure Section
- flesh out magical misshap table
- add missing spellcasting perk stuff
- add missing keyword descritpions
- proper phrasing of some stuff in the combat

**Classes**
- barbarian nerf resentful strike, should be d6 bonus damage.
  - generally rewrite lots of the barbarian rules
- add missing stuff
- warlock definitly still needing lots of fleshing out
- Make class core abilities more unique:
  - Cleric, Warlock, Barbarian and Mage I am pretty happy
  - Fighter and Rogue need to feel more different.
  - Maybe fighter only has a focus target (oath of moment style) ability and all class techniques are based of that Or maybe fighter can select different stances: Horde Breaker, Beast slayer, Tank and your class techniques change depending on that, you gain Focus 1 per Round and your stance changes how much you gain additionally.
  - Rogue?

**Equipment**
- other useful items, books that give bonuses to lore checks (treats skill as 1 rank higher, can only be affected by [INT]/3 amount of books at the same time, no skill twice)
- magic item rules
- crafting rules
- cooking items
- masterwork: also +1 damage.
- There should be a trinkets table.

**Spells**
- more spells
- finish out the spell discipline specific effects.

**Status Effects:**
- Confused Condition?

**Nice to have**
- have colored abilities and more icons
- add missing abilities
- add linking and tooltips for abilities

**Extra Things to have In new Character Sheet**
- On all places show the formula for calculating, which is fixed but can be modified with additional values.
- long rest button/rest values
- concealment bonuzses
- temp Hp
- Perk Trees
- Have all Abilities in the Same Place but in separate columns 
- Show encumbermance in equipment
- passive Awareness

Commit message:

Simplify almost all Abilities and rework some, add new keyword.

todo_rules.md, after:

____________________________________________________________
### Things to evaluate after Playtest:

**Big Things**
- consider moving attack back to the DM.
- add fate points / some mechanics to reroll things
- hybrid abilities necesarry?
- does spell casting system work
- The System should be focused around the Riftlands
  - Maybe also about accumilating power which can only be found in the riftlands and most "adventurers" get lost there
  - Find good name for adventurer.
  - Think of a way that makes the Riftlands work
  - It should be special and if you want to get to a specific Location it requires something special.

**Minor Things**
- improve layout of character creation 
- maybe make seperate pages for the individual headers
- adjust equipment item tier
- have another look at the implementation of the martial training perks
- Add Wands and Staffs that enable spell basic attacks
- Robes?

____________________________________________________________
### Planned changes after Playtest:

**Formatting**

**Bigger Mechanical Changes**
- Rescale damage, especially for NPCs to make it less lethal at 1st level, maybe NPCs only deal d6 damage.
- Implement similar system for Spell Damage
- Properly rework Hybrid Abilities, they deserve to stay.
- Shields?
- remove unncessesarry core abilities

**Smaller Mechanical Changes**
- Permanent Injuries should only trigger when reduced to 0 [HP] or at Deaths Door.
- Spell Keywords need to be reworked
- Rewrite perks that have poor ability rendering/formatting

**Ability Simplifications**
- Treat Mechanical Text and Flavour Text seperatly. (abilities should have the textelements for better formatting)
- When possible simplify the mechanical text a lot.
- Weapon Attack Ability Should not be referenced in other abilities but instead the equipment should have references for these.

**Character Changes**
- reduce initial attribute points (maybe 10?)
- Remove Class Features and maybe instead have Class Perks, which can be taken instead of Perks, this includes regular class features as well as class paths.
- Class will only have Class Core Feature which improves at level 4/8/12
- For this the Class Core Feature needs to be special and unique (see notes below)
- Should the Class Names Change more to match the Fantasy World?
- Improve the Character Origins to be more in theme with the world, especially they should have motivation for going into the Riftlands.
- warlock: rename mystic something else
- reduce number of attribute points to 10 maybe

**Specific Changes**
- Rename Hardness to Stability
- adjust travel text since speed is constant.
___________________________________________________________
### Future Ideas / Nice to have:

create cheet sheet

maybe add shocked Status effect: can't use reactions

convert custom textelements thingy to rich text format https://github.com/contentful/rich-text

add activities that can be done during long rests:
- crafting
- research
- community service
- spend time with loved ones
- Work (Tool, Medicine or smth else)
- go undercover
- improve relations with faction
- religous service
- carousing
- entertainment
- medical servies that speed up healing.s

Massive Injuries should be split into mental and physical, additionally there should be maybe 3 damage type specific tiers.
rule for helping othrs, roll same check, for every 5 above 10 gain +1.
Table for when NPCs drop to 0 [HP] to determine what happens to them.
New keyword: [SAVE LOWERS], status effect gains 1 tier lower.

There should be a move resist stat that deterimes how much less you are moved.
- Tiny: 3x
- Small 2x
- medium 1x
- Large 1/2
- Huge 1/3
- Gargantuan 1/4
- Titanic 1/5s

add faction relations thing (is it relevant for this game?): 
- should be adventure specific
- higher should give you like access to items and other benefits

**Feat/Accomplishments**
Differnt way of gaining new abilities or features, the players can pick one and have to track progress until they got it, make it integratable into the riftlands and they should be achievable mostly by going to the riftlands.


**Perks**
- Martial Perks for each weapon

**Character Creation Builder**
- need a character wizard

**Missing/partially done things**
- Finish out Adventure Section
- flesh out magical misshap table
- add missing spellcasting perk stuff
- add missing keyword descritpions
- proper phrasing of some stuff in the combat

**Classes**
- barbarian nerf resentful strike, should be d6 bonus damage.
  - generally rewrite lots of the barbarian rules
- add missing stuff
- warlock definitly still needing lots of fleshing out
- Make class core abilities more unique:
  - Cleric, Warlock, Barbarian and Mage I am pretty happy
  - Fighter and Rogue need to feel more different.
  - Maybe fighter only has a focus target (oath of moment style) ability and all class techniques are based of that Or maybe fighter can select different stances: Horde Breaker, Beast slayer, Tank and your class techniques change depending on that, you gain Focus 1 per Round and your stance changes how much you gain additionally.
  - Rogue?

**Equipment**
- other useful items, books that give bonuses to lore checks (treats skill as 1 rank higher, can only be affected by [INT]/3 amount of books at the same time, no skill twice)
- magic item rules
- crafting rules
- cooking items
- masterwork: also +1 damage.
- There should be a trinkets table.

**Spells**
- more spells
- finish out the spell discipline specific effects.

**Status Effects:**
- Confused Condition?

**Nice to have**
- have colored abilities and more icons
- add missing abilities
- add linking and tooltips for abilities

**Extra Things to have In new Character Sheet**
- On all places show the formula for calculating, which is fixed but can be modified with additional values.
- long rest button/rest values
- concealment bonuzses
- temp Hp
- Perk Trees
- Have all Abilities in the Same Place but in separate columns 
- Show encumbermance in equipment
- passive Awareness

**Tollbox Things to Add**
- Chase!
  - See Phone Notes
- low character count combat.
  - Basically Initiative starts as Usual but that just determines who gets turn priority.
  - [MP] can only be used if gained through ability like Dash
  - Initiative is based upon [EAP] used during the combat (Effective AP).
  - The combatant with lowest [EAP] gets to go first, on tie is decided based upon turn priority.
  - The EAP you get depend on AP used and maximum AP: 3 AP = AP used * 10, 4 AP = AP used * 15, 5 AP = AP used * 12, 6 AP = AP used * 10
    - For creatures with more AP it gets a bit wonky
    - If getting AP through abilities, just reduce current EAP by (AP gained) * 10, If you increase your base AP each TURN, instead reduce every 60 [EAP]
    - 10 EAP is 1 second
    - IF AP are reduced, EAP are added instead.
  - Not recommended if more than 3 combatants are involved
