todo_foundry_vtt.md, before:

### Immidiate TODOS

fix Initiative (currently adds attribute)
fix stun description

add specific roll tests (d20Test, ATtributeTest, ...) in actor class

# General TODOs/Nice to have

## Bugs:

- Somehow Short rest button is triggered via ENTER Key

## Actors

- Change Biography to either be in separate Tab or at the bottom of the Overview.
  - alignmeent should be there
  - languages should be there
- On all places show the formula for calculating, which is fixed but can be modified with additional values.
- Configure prototype token
- Data Section add Translation 
- Add Notifications if there is something todo (e.g. learn new ability, add attribute pooitns, assign skill ranks)

- Handle Cearture Size
- Add Icons to skill

### Characters

- easy way to record character origin
- place for permanent injury
- passive Awareness and stuff
- concealment bonuzses
- Implement Exhaustion in a nicer way
- Implement Errors in case too many Abilities or Perks are added.
- Perk Trees

### NPCS

- Overview Tab: change from bonus in save to passive values
- Description Tab: HTML Field that shows lore and stuff
- Skills: needs possibility to set skil lranks manaullys

## Items

- Add color depending on type and subtypes (e.g. pyromancy spells red, martial perks red, spell perks blue, etc.)

### Equipment

- Show encumbermance in equipment and calculate
- Automatically update character based on items
- Create Functionality to "equip" items.
- Can embedd abilities that show up in the character sheet

### Abilities

- Add better Data structure for Cost and Tags
- add possiblity to properly modify cost, tags, requirements
- Automatic checking of requirements
- Allow for adding actions
    - Custom Dice Roll
    - Custom Roll (Damage)
    - Applying Effects

### Perks

- Interactive Perk Tree
- Proper Requirements Checking

### Tables

- Injury Table
- Spell Misshap Table

### Classes

- Actually Implement Character Classes

## Interactions

- Damage Roll functionality
- Implemt Status Effects

- When making SKill Test, a Request Help Button

## Special

Keep Records, total damage, healing, etc. (check fantasygrounds example)
Use JSOn common_resources

Commit message:

adjust npc generator to support level 0.125 creatures change image directory.
Add more NPCs to Foundry and use new images and also utalize the wildcard function

todo_foundry_vtt.md, after:

### Immidiate TODOS

fix Initiative for players
fix stun description
reset thp after long rest

add specific roll tests (d20Test, ATtributeTest, ...) in actor class

# General TODOs/Nice to have

## Bugs:

- Somehow Short rest button is triggered via ENTER Key

## Actors

- Change Biography to either be in separate Tab or at the bottom of the Overview.
  - alignmeent should be there
  - languages should be there
- On all places show the formula for calculating, which is fixed but can be modified with additional values.
- Configure prototype token
- Data Section add Translation 
- Add Notifications if there is something todo (e.g. learn new ability, add attribute pooitns, assign skill ranks)

- have UI that shows current AP and MP at start of Round.

- Handle Cearture Size
- Add Icons to skill

### Characters

- easy way to record character origin
- place for permanent injury
- passive Awareness and stuff
- concealment bonuzses
- Implement Exhaustion in a nicer way
- Implement Errors in case too many Abilities or Perks are added.
- Perk Trees

### Summons

Separate Type that is bascically like NPCS but roll everything

### NPCS

- Overview Tab: change from bonus in save to passive values
- Description Tab: HTML Field that shows lore and stuff
- Skills: needs possibility to set skil lranks manaullys


## Items

- Add color depending on type and subtypes (e.g. pyromancy spells red, martial perks red, spell perks blue, etc.)

### Equipment

- Show encumbermance in equipment and calculate
- Automatically update character based on items
- Create Functionality to "equip" items.
- Can embedd abilities that show up in the character sheet

###  Abilities

- Add better Data structure for Cost and Tags
- add possiblity to properly modify cost, tags, requirements
- Automatic checking of requirements
- Allow for adding actions
    - Custom Dice Roll
    - Custom Roll (Damage)
    - Applying Effects


Extend Spell Cast functionality to support upcasting.

### Perks

- Interactive Perk Tree
- Proper Requirements Checking

### Tables

- Injury Table
- Spell Misshap Table

### Classes

- Actually Implement Character Classes

## Interactions

- Damage Roll functionality
- Implemt Status Effects

- When making SKill Test, a Request Help Button

## Special

Keep Records, total damage, healing, etc. (check fantasygrounds example)
Use JSOn common_resources
